[THEME MUSIC]
>>WILLIAM HENRY: Hello,
I'm William Henry.
Welcome to "The Awakened Soul."
I recently came across an
article that speaks directly
to my work on
ascension, stargates,
and human transformation
into angels,
or celestial, or star beings.
I will share excerpts
of it with you
today in a commentary
in this episode.
The article is
entitled "When Going
on a Heavenly Journey, Travel
Light and Dress Appropriately."
And it's by Dr. Carla
Sulzbach, a professor
of Religious Studies at
McGill University in Toronto.
It was published in the
"Journal for the Study
of the Pseudepigrapha" in 2010.
Dr. Sulzbach notes that Jewish
teachings about encountering
heavenly beings
instructs the reader
not to speculate under any
circumstance concerning
four things-- about
what is above,
what is below, what was
before, and what will be after.
She notes that despite this
directive, myriads of tomes
have been filled with exactly
that-- speculation concerning
what is beyond human
reach and perception,
including manuals on ascension
and how to reach places
beyond space and time.
This is our area of interest.
And we're talking
about ascension
in realizing that these ancient
mystics were breaking down
boundaries and
mapping the afterlife
in the cosmos of the soul.
The Hebrew Bible, she notes,
presents quite a number
of examples that deal with
speculation concerning
various aspects of
the heavenly realm.
However, it's the Second Temple
period, the second temple
of Solomon, that is, and
late antiquity, encompassing
especially the time of Jesus
that a virtual explosion
and the production of these
ascension materials took place.
We suddenly begin
hearing stories
of humans ascending--
lots of them.
And other scholars have
documented this explosion
of ascension materials, and I've
spent the past five years or so
scaling the ivory
towers of academia
to retrieve these texts
and to bring them back
into the popular area,
where people who need them,
such as you, can
actually access them.
What shocks me the most about
the academic discussions is
how explicitly they
describe higher dimensional
worlds and celestial
beings, as well as
human transformation
into celestial beings
and ascension via stargates.
But the thing is, the
academics don't actually
use the term "stargate."
They dance all around it,
saying portal or vortex.
But in my view, if they actually
use the word "stargate,"
it would bring tremendous
clarity to these texts.
Numerous spiritual and
religious traditions
tell us that in
order for the soul
to enter the stargate to
the next higher realm--
call it heaven, the
pure land, or nirvana--
the soul must be
dressed appropriately.
In fact, in order to enter
this higher frequency realm,
we must learn to dress lightly.
This is why ascended beings,
like the Egyptian god Osiris,
are shown dressed in white.
The whiteness stands for the
purity of the soul and a higher
vibrational existence.
Dressing or coding ourselves
in our light body robe
is actually a key code
symbol for the soul
that crosses spiritual
and mystical traditions.
A key point is that this
robe is transmittable.
This robe actually
symbolizes the vibration
of the beings in the
next higher dimension.
But it is also a state of being
that is acquired in this realm.
We might even go
so far as to say
it is the purpose of
our earthly existence.
The angels live in a higher
realm, where anything
and everything is possible.
They know the lost
science of the soul.
But some of them crossed a
previously forbidden boundary
and took on human form to teach
humans the secret of heaven,
that is, how to
cross this boundary
and return the
soul to its source.
The texts that I'm referring
to include the Enoch books,
many Essene works like the
Dead Sea Scrolls from Qumran
and Bubastis in Egypt, and
the Merkabah, or mystic throne
literature, and also
the Book of Revelation.
The angels that are
featured in these texts
have the ability to manifest on
Earth in many forms, especially
as seraph, hybrid
human angels who
are described as luminous
plasma-like an emitting rainbow
colors.
Their bodies are
portrayed as fiery red
because they burn with
the love of the creator.
Their vortex, or
toroidal-shaped bodies,
symbolize the
luminous energy field
of heaven-- the energy
field of the awakened soul.
In fact, during
the Renaissance, it
was proclaimed that the
highest human aspiration
was to transform into a seraph.
This was based on Francis
of Assisi's encounter
with Jesus as a seraph.
Angels often appear
in human guise
when they need to communicate
directly with humans.
They also have the ability
to shape shift, or appear
as pure flame and
then subsequently take
on human appearance.
This could be because
the human form is in fact
the natural shape of the soul.
The bodies of the
angels are covered
with a luminous garment,
the robe of the soul.
Adam and Eve in Jewish
mysticism were originally
dressed in this
luminous clothing,
but when they were evicted from
Eden, these clothes of light
were taken away
and all of humanity
were given coats of skin.
Humanity has sought to recover
the secrets of the light body
ever since.
And in Christian teaching,
Jesus was the second Adam,
sent to correct the
mistake of Adam and Eve
by showing us how to
reacquire our robe of light.
Jesus himself acquired
this cloak or robe of light
after his baptism.
The angels in white
at the Resurrection
wore this garment,
as in fact did
Jesus in his own Resurrection.
The bright white
linen dress worn
by members of the priestly
classes as well as the Essenes,
as related by
Philo and Josephus,
is clearly related
to matters of purity
and also, in imitation of
the luminosity of the angels.
The robe of the soul
as we now explore,
actually has five layers.
Five is an extremely
important symbol.
In mystical symbolism, five is
the number of the perfect man.
Five is also found
in the human body--
the five fingers of the hand,
the five senses, the five
members, two arms,
two legs, and a head.
According to Giordano
Bruno, the number five
is the number of the soul.
In the teaching of the
followers of Plato,
called Neoplatonism, for turning
humans into divine beings,
five steps are followed.
First, the soul recognizes
it has a Divine Self,
called the "daimon."
Next, the soul has a pure
vision of the divine.
Third, the lower self and
the higher self unite.
Fourth, the combined
souls experience
a spiritual ascension.
Until fifth, the
soul is deified.
This divine work
is called theurgy
and it's the use of ritual,
both physical and mental,
to purify and elevate the soul.
It is also called the
Apotheosis, or divination
of the soul, or the perfection
of the soul and our elevation
to the race of just humans
made perfect as described
in the book of Hebrews.
We attain our divination,
our divine body,
when the soul harmonizes
with the divine order
and affects a communion and
divine union with the gods,
and ultimately, with the one.
Mystically speaking, we are
the one and the one is you.
But through the five
steps, or theurgy,
we self-perfect and transform
into a god or an angel.
And we put on the five-fold
robe of the angels.
This key code symbol,
the five steps
and five layers of
the soul, is actually
established at the
beginning of life.
Remember, our bodies are made
from materials from supernovas.
In its death throes,
a star or supernova
resembles an enormous,
many-colored onion,
as successively heavier layers
of fuel ignite and burn.
The human egg, the female
reproductive element,
follows a similar pathway.
It is larger than any
other bodily cells,
and it's made up of
a nucleus surrounded
by five layers-- cytoplasm,
plasma membrane, chorion,
albumin layers, and
the shell membrane.
These five codes are
added successively
as the egg passes
down the oviduct.
The egg is initially
formed by materials
that have migrated into
the special environment
of the ovaries, and only in
this special environment,
those primordial germ
cells become eggs.
The egg itself
contains within itself
all the essentials
for development,
leaving the sperm the
role of activating
an already prepared system.
The coats of the egg are
distinctive in humans
and a close relation exists
between the cellular features
of the egg and the life history
of the species to which it
belongs.
Isn't it fascinating how
the five layers of the egg
correspond to the five steps to
our transformation into angels?
You may have heard of the
Principle of Correspondence--
as above, so below,
as within, so without.
We find this in the
protoplasmic framework
of the egg that sets
the structural framework
of the new individual, just as
the framework of the supernova
set the structural
framework for the egg.
And using this
method of analogy,
or correspondence, this
is a really potent axiom
when applied to the
process of cosmic birth
and our own evolution
as cosmic eggs.
When we turn to Egypt,
we find that there are
five components to the soul.
The five components are
Ren, Ka, Ib, Ba, and Akh.
The simplest of
these concepts is
Ren, which is literally your
name given to you at birth.
It lives for as long
as you are remembered
or can be read about
in inscriptions
or included in prayers
for the ancestors
and their achievements.
The second layer is the Ka.
It's that vital essence,
that vital spark
or vital fire that makes the
difference between the living
and the dead.
The living and the dead
meet between a warm body
and the cold clay,
or unactivated DNA.
The third component
is called the Ba,
which is always portrayed
as a human-headed bird.
This beautiful golden Ba amulet
from the Ptolemaic period
would have been worn
as a good luck device
and a reminder of the soul.
The Ba is your personality,
or that which makes each of us
unique and different, that which
makes us strive and achieve.
The Ib component of the
soul is literally the heart.
It's formed from a single drop
of clotted blood extracted
from your mother's heart at
the hour of your conception
or birth.
Now by heart, the
Egyptians meant not just
the organ for pumping
blood around your body,
but the metaphysical
seat of your soul,
that good or godly
directing force in your life
that's searching after
truth, peace, and harmony.
At the final reckoning,
the day of judgment
in the Book of the
Dead, the heart
took center stage,
being asked to account
for all a person's deeds.
It was weighed against the
feather of divine truth.
And if the heart weighed
less than the feather,
the soul continued on
its spiral of evolution,
joining Osiris and the
other celestial beings
in the next level of evolution.
If not, there was a
recycling program,
and we got to do
it all over again.
Finally, there is
the Akh, which is
the blessed or
transfigured soul,
according to the Egyptians.
This is the soul that
had been judged by Osiris
and had been found justified.
The Akh, another
spiritual entity
which was the
transfigured spirit that
survived death and actually
gets to mingle with the gods.
We're actually looking at the
transfigured or re-erected King
Tut in this image here, who's
portrayed in his crossed body,
his eternal light body.
Now turning from Egypt
into the Hindu teaching,
we find that, once again,
there are five material sheaths
called kosha that envelop the
soul like concentric rings
of an onion.
Are you seeing a
pattern develop here?
Each succeeding kosha
affects or controls
the activity of the
preceding kosha.
And in this teaching
that's presented best
by Swami Bharati,
we humans are viewed
as a lamp that has five
lampshades over our light.
And each of these lampshades is
a different color and density.
As the light shines through
these lampshades that
cover our soul, it is
progressively changed
in color and nature.
The yoga path of
self-realisation
is one of progressively
moving inward through each
of these lampshades
or veils so as
to experience the purity
at the eternal center
of our consciousness,
while at the same time
allowing that purity to animate
through our individuality.
So let's take a
look at those koshas
now, beginning
with the Annamaya.
Anna means food.
So the food sheath, or kosha,
is the gross, physical body.
It includes our five organs
of perception-- including
sight, hearing, smell, taste,
and touch-- and the five
organs of action-- prehension,
locomotion, articulation,
excretion, and procreation.
It's called food sheath
because food or anna enabled
it to come into being, and
it's maintained by food,
and it ultimately ends up
as food or the constituents
of food-- the worm food idea.
The next kosha, the energy
kosha, is Pranamaya.
Prana means energy.
It is the vital force that
produces the subtle vibrations
related to breath and
which are the driving
force behind the physical
aspect of the senses
and the operation of the
physical body itself.
It allows the
invisible indweller,
of our true self,
our soul, to be
able to animate in
the external world.
The third sheath is the mental
sheath, the Manamaya kosha.
Mana means mind.
And this is the level
of processing thoughts
and emotions.
This layer is
composed with Mind,
which is the source of
thoughts, emotions, and desires.
It is also constituted
with the five sense organs,
like the tongue, smell,
eyes, ear, and skin, which
makes every individual unique.
This is the layer that receives
inputs of all the sense organs
and interprets the
good or bad in it.
It's very much more
powerful than the Anamaya
kosha or the
Pranamaya one, and is
governed by the other koshas.
It's really the center
of our human existence.
Many types of treatments
that you use like music,
placebo, aromatherapy,
actually work on this layer.
The fourth kosha or layer
is the wisdom kosha.
Vijnana means knowing.
It is the sheath of wisdom that
is underneath the processing
or thinking aspect of mind.
It's kind of like the
mind behind the curtain,
if you will.
It knows, it decides, it
judges, and it discriminates
between this and that, between
what's useful and not useful.
And then finally we come to the
bliss chakra, Anandamaya kosha,
which is the most interior
of the koshas, the first
of the koshas surrounding
the Atman, the eternal center
of our consciousness.
Ananda means bliss.
However, it's not a bliss as
a mere emotion of happiness
that's experienced at the
level of the mind sheath.
This is a whole different
order of ecstasy
from that of the mind.
It's a cosmic peace
and joy and love
that is underneath,
beyond the mind, that's
independent of any
reason or stimulus
to cause a happy
mental reaction.
It's just simply being and
resting in bliss called Ananda.
The ultimate goal
of all human life
is to move from the Anamaya
kosha, the most outermost
kosha, and into the
innermost, and gradually then
move into the Anandamaya kosha,
a state of blissful being
in which we are merging with
the infinite, with the cosmic,
and recognizing our
oneness with all that is.
So from our exploration
into the Hindu
and the Egyptian
tradition, we now
realize that our soul body
has five unseen layers.
This is exactly the concept that
is at the root of da Vinci's
"Vitruvian Man."
This concept is also
encoded in the story
of the crucifixion of Jesus.
Medieval Christians believed
that the pentagram symbolized
the five wounds of Christ.
At the crucifixion of
Jesus, Roman soldiers
took his outer garments
and made four parts,
a part to every soldier
and also the tunic.
The Bible says that
this final tunic was
seamless, woven in one piece.
So what we're talking about
here in the crucifixion
is a total of five garments.
This cannot be by coincidence.
Here's what the Bible says.
So they have said to one
another, let us not tear it,
but cast lots for it to
decide whose it shall be.
This is Roman soldiers gambling
for the koshas of Christ.
This was to fulfill
the scripture that
says they divided my
outer garments among them
and for my clothing
they cast lots.
The fifth garment, this
seamless robe or coat,
is actually the symbol for
the light body or resurrection
body of Christ.
So again, is it
merely coincidence
that these Roman soldiers
divided Jesus' clothes
into five garments?
Or is this actually a
reference to a correspondence
to the Hindu and Egyptian
tradition for the awakened soul
and the five koshas, or
five layers, of our soul?
Taking this one step forward,
a giant leap forward,
the rainbow colors that
surround the cosmic Christ's
resurrection body also
correspond to the five colors
of the Tibetan rainbow
body of light tradition
in which the human
body is dissolved
into five pure essences.
The Tibetans teach that the
Great Perfection's rainbow body
is the product of the human body
be dissolved into pure light.
And it's actually constituted
by the five pure lights.
They are associated with
the five-color Himalayan
rainbow, which is white,
yellow, red, green, and blue.
The five pure lights are
understood as pure light energy
and are considered to be
the most sublime essence
quality of the five classical
elements-- namely, space, air,
water, fire, and earth.
These are the elements that
compose our many-colored dream
coat.
And when all the colors are
mixed, they become white.
This is the original bright
white light body of the angels.
This is the robe of the soul.
Now the agnostic
gospel of Philip
is very enlightening about this.
It tells us that the
Lord rose from the dead.
He became as he was, but
now his body was perfect.
Well that sounds like the Great
Perfection of the Tibetans.
Philip goes on to say that
he, the cosmic Christ,
possessed flesh, but
this was true flesh.
Our flesh isn't
true, says Philip.
Ours is only an
image of the truth.
Then Philip goes
on to say that we
must become perfect
before leaving this world.
This is explicitly
echoing the Tibetan idea
that in order to leave Earth, we
must attain our perfect rainbow
body of light and dress our
soul in its perfect-like body.
This is a very clear
reference to the attainment
of the robe of the soul.
So what are we to
do with all this?
How do we incorporate
this into our life?
Well, for one
thing, it prompts us
to recognize the
sacredness of our soul
and the immense power enfolded
within our human body.
It tells us about
the power of our soul
to put on a five-fold
robe of light.
So why do we want to do that?
Well, in closing,
I want to share
some insights about this shining
coat from Yaqui sorcerer Don
Juan, as documented by
Carlos Castaneda in his book
"The Active Side of Infinity."
Like the gnostics
and the apostle Paul,
Don Juan taught that there
is an alien predator that
thinks of and treats
humans as property, slaves.
Don Juan believed that they use
or used humans as a food source
and can overlay the
human psych in order
to keep us dumbed down and
unaware of their influence.
However, he teaches, it's
possible to dislodge them
through discipline
by allowing ourselves
to be immersed in destructive
emotions-- fear, anxiety,
anger, strife, jealousy,
competitiveness--
the dog-eat-dog mentality
we hold at minimum, what
Don Juan calls our
shining coat of awareness
and thus serve the alien agenda.
This shining coat
is, in my opinion,
the robe of the soul, or
the rainbow light body.
And Don Juan says that we
can rebuild our shining coat
and no longer be under the
influence of those dark forces
by removing the self from
our focus of existence--
get out of our ego,
in other words.
This is Essene Gnosticism
and Jewish mysticism as pure
as it gets.
And it gets to the
heart of our work
together on the
rainbow body of light
and illuminating and
awakening our soul.
This is called the
Perfect Garment
by the gnostics who
claimed that a group
of extraterrestrial beings
called archons would not
be able to see us once we put
on our light body garments.
As the Gospel of Philip
says, the powers, archons,
do you not see those who are
clothed in this perfect light,
and consequently are
not able to detain them.
One will clothe himself in
this light sacramentally
in the union.
The gospel of Philip
continues saying,
not only will the archives
be unable to detain
the perfect man, but they
will not be able to see him,
for if they see him,
they will detain him.
There is no other
way, says Philip,
for a person to
acquire this quality
except by putting
on the perfect light
and he too becoming
perfect light.
In my view, this perfect light
is a beautiful description
of the Tibetan Great
Perfection and the attainment
of the rainbow light body.
Don Juan taught that
spiritual discipline
makes our glowing code
of awareness unpalatable
to the predators.
The result is that the
predators become bewildered,
and inedible glowing
coat of awareness
is not part of their
cognition, he said.
And after being
bewildered by us,
they don't have any recourse
other than refraining
from continuing
their nefarious task.
Don Juan continued saying
that if the predators don't
eat our glowing coat of
awareness for a while,
it will keep on growing.
And simplifying this matter
to the extreme, he says,
I can say that sorcerers, by
means of their discipline,
and then getting out
of the ego again,
push the predators
away long enough
to allow their glowing
coat of awareness
to grow beyond the
level of the toes.
And once it grows beyond
the level of the toes,
it grows back to
its natural size.
So here's my message,
derived from Don Juan, that
is that if manifesting the
full rainbow light body
seems intimidating, Don Juan
is offering us encouragement.
To protect ourselves
from the predator,
we may only need to raise it to
the level just beyond the toes.
Philip, again-- but
when it is revealed,
then the perfect light
will flow out on everyone.
And all those who are in it will
receive the chrism, the oil.
Then the slaves will be free
and the captives ransomed.
Can you imagine a
world in which everyone
wears their rainbow of the
soul, or their robe of the soul?
Maybe they lift it up
only to their toes.
Meditate on that.
Visualize that.
Actualize that.
And until next time, be
humble, let your light
shine, and namaste.
This is William Henry.
Thank you for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]